>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 1:
INVESTIGATORS SEARCH FOR ANSWERS
ON WHAT BROUGHT DOWN A RUSSIAN
PASSENGER PLANE IN EGYPT.
IN TURKEY: PRESIDENT ERDOGAN'S
RULING PARTY IS NOW EXPECTED TO
REGAIN CONTROL OF PARLIAMENT.
AND IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT, MY
REPORT FROM GREECE, THE MAIN
ENTRY POINT FOR REFUGEES
ARRIVING IN EUROPE.
GIVEN THIS BORDER CRISIS IN
GREECE, HOW DO YOU REVERSE THIS?
>> I DON'T THINK YOU CAN REVERSE
THIS, NOT IN THE SENSE OF
STOPPING THE FLOW OF PEOPLE.
>> Sreenivasan: NEXT ON PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
AT LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
A MULTINATIONAL TEAM OF
INVESTIGATORS IS EXAMINING THE
WRECKAGE OF THE RUSSIAN
PASSENGER JET THAT CRASHED IN
THE SINAI PENINSULA OF EGYPT
YESTERDAY, KILLING ALL 224
PEOPLE ON BOARD.
THE BODIES OF THE MORE THAN 160
VICTIMS HAVE BEEN RECOVERED.
ITN REPORTER JAMES BLAKE HAS
MORE.
>> THERE IS NOT MUCH LEFT OF
THIS PLANE THAT IS RECOGNIZABLE
IN THIS WRECKAGE.
THE NOSE CONE, A SECTION OF
FUSELAGE.
INVESTIGATORS HAVE STARTED THEIR
SLOW AND PAINSTAKING TASK OF
EXAMINING THIS CRASH SITE.
LUGGAGE AND CLOTHING WAS PULLED
OUT OF THE WRECKAGE AND PILED
TOGETHER.
THE SEARCH AREA ITSELF WIDENED
AT A.
DEBRIS OF AIRBUS IS FOUND OVER
EIGHT SQUARE MILES OF THE
DESERT.
BODY OF ONE YOUNG GIRL FOUND
EIGHT MILES FROM THE SITE.
CONCLUSION THAT THE PLANE BROKE
UP IN MID AIR.
YESTERDAY, ISLAMIC STATE
MILITANTS CLAIMED THEY BROUGHT
DOWN THE PLANE.
THAT WAS QUICKLY DISMISSED BY
EGYPTIAN OFFICIALS.
THE PLANE'S TWO BLACK BOXES OF,
ONLY THE INVESTIGATION WOULD
TAKE A LONG TIME.
>> (translated): IT'S VERY
IMPORTANT THAT THIS MATTER BE
LEFT ALONE AND THAT DISCUSSIONS
AND THE REASONS BEHIND IT SHOULD
NOT TAKE PLACE.
BECAUSE THIS TAKES A VERY LONG
TIME.
THESE ARE CONFLICTED MATTERS
THAT REQUIRE VERY ADVANCED
TECHNIQUES AND BROAD
INVESTIGATIONS, THAT COULD TAKE
MONTHS.
>>Reporter: IN RUSSIA THERE'S A
PARALLEL INVESTIGATION, AIRBUS
A-321 PLANES ARE BEING GROUNDED
AND CHECKED.
YET THE AIRLINE INSISTS PROPER
CHECKS WERE CARRIED OUT.
INTERNATIONAL AIRLINES HAVE
ANNOUNCED THEY WILL STOP FLYING
OVER THE SINAI PENINSULA, RUSSIA
SAYS IT WILL ARE CONSIDER ALL
POSSIBILITIES CAUSING THE CRASH.
A SHRINE HAS BEEN SET UP AT ST.
PETERSBURG AIRPORT WHERE THE
FLIGHT WAS DESTINED.
IMAGES HAVE EMERGED OF SOME OF
THE PASSENGERS OF 528.
ONE PASSENGER, YOUNGEST VICTIM,
15-YEAR-OLD DORINA IS
PHOTOGRAPHED IN THE TERMINAL
BEFORE TAKEOFF.
IN SHARM EL SHEIKH AND IN
ST. PETERSBURG, THERE WERE
RELIGIOUS CEREMONIES, HUNDREDS
TURNED OUT FOR A VIGIL.
WITHOUT ANY MORE INFORMATION ON
THE CAUSE OF THIS CRASH, THE
FAMILIES IN RUSSIA ARE WAITING
FOR THE BODIES OF THEIR LOVED
ONES TO BE BROUGHT HOME.
FP
>> Sreenivasan: TURKEY'S RULING
PARTY APPEARS TO HAVE REGAINED
CONTROL OF PARLIAMENT.
IN NATIONAL ELECTIONS TODAY, THE
JUSTICE AND DEVELOPMENT PARTY,
KNOWN AS A.K.P., WON SLIGHTLY
LESS THAN 50% OF THE VOTE,
THOUGHT TO BE ENOUGH EITHER TO
WIN A MAJORITY OF SEATS OR TO
CONTROL A GOVERNING COALITION.
THE RESULTS ARE A BOOST FOR
TURKISH PRESIDENT TAYYIP
ERDOGAN, ALTHOUGH HE WAS NOT ON
THE BALLOT.
HIS PARTY HAD LOST ITS
PARLIAMENTARY MAJORITY IN JUNE.
THE VICTORY COULD STRENGTHEN
ERDOGAN'S HAND IN CRACKING DOWN
ON KURDISH SEPARATISTS.
AND IN COOPERATING WITH NATO
ALLIES, INCLUDING THE UNITED
STATES, IN FIGHTING ISLAMIC
STATE, OR ISIS, MILITANTS IN
NEIGHBORING SYRIA AND IRAQ.
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
MALCOLM BRABANT IS IN TURKEY
COVERING THE ELECTIONS, AND HE
JOINS ME NOW VIA SKYPE FROM
ISTANBUL.
>> MALCOLM, EVERYONE GOT THIS
WRONG IN THEIR PREDICTIONS
HEADING INTO THE ELECTION.
WHAT HAPPENED?
>> WELL, THERE HAS BEEN SORT OF
CONSISTENCY ACTUALLY IN LOTS OF
ELECTIONS AROUND THE WORLD,
WHERE THE POLLS HAVE GOTTEN IT
WRONG AND TURKEY IN THAT RESPECT
IS NO DIFFERENT THAN OTHER
PLACES WHERE THE POLLSTERS HAVE
GOT IT WRONG.
PERHAPS PEOPLE HAVE BEEN TELLING
FIBS TO THE POLLSTERS BECAUSE
THEY WANTED TO TRICK THEM.
THEY WANTED TO VOTE FOR
STABILITY AND ALSO SECURITY.
WHAT SEEMS TO HAVE HAPPENED IS
MR. ERDOGAN'S GAMBLE IN HOLDING
SECOND ELECTION IN THE SPACE OF
5 MONTHS HAS WORKED.
AND THE REASONS FOR THAT SEEM TO
BE AS I SAY BECAUSE THE TURKS
CRAVE STABILITY, THERE ARE ALSO
THOSE TERRORIST BOMBS SOME TIME
AGO.
AND THAT'S LED PEOPLE TO GO
RUSHING PERHAPS TO MR. ERDOGAN'S
AKP PARTY.
SAYING DURING THE JUNE ELECTIONS
THE AKP PARTY SUPPORTERS
DESSERT -- DESERTED IT BECAUSE
THEY WERE DISILLUSIONED BY IT,
BUT THE OTHER THING THAT SEEMS
TO HAVE HAPPENED WAS THERE WAS
DISUNITY AMONGST THE OPPOSITION
PARTIES AND PEOPLE PUNISH THEM
FOR NOT HAVING THE ABILITY TO
COME UP WITH AN ALTERNATIVE TO
MR. ERDOGAN'S PARTY.
SO THAT APPEARS TO BE THE REASON
WHY HE'S WON.
ALTHOUGH THIS WAS SUBSTANTIAL
AND UNEXPECTED VICTORY HE
APPEALED FOR THE AKP PARTY TO
HAVE HUMILITY IN THIS VICTORY
AND NOT TO BE ARROGANT ABOUT IT.
>> BECAUSE OF THE SECURITY
QUESTION YOU MENTIONED ALREADY,
WHAT ABOUT THE REFUGEES THAT ARE
LANDING ON TURKEY'S DOOR?
THEY HAVE 2 MILLION REFUGEES,
PARTICULARLY ENTIRE CITIES OF
REFUGEE CAMPS NOW.
>> THIS IS REALLY A MAJOR
PROBLEM FOR TURKEY BUT ALSO FOR
EUROPE.
BUT WHAT THIS ELECTION VICTORY
DOES REALLY IN A WAY SIT
STRENGTHENS MR. ERDOGAN'S HAND
WHEN IT COMES TO DEALING WITH
EUROPE.
NOW THEY KNOW WHO THEY'RE
DEALING WITH.
THERE ARE SOME PEOPLE IN EUROPE
FOR EXAMPLE WHO THINK
MR. ERDOGAN AND HIS PARTIES HERE
HAVE BEEN BLACKMAILING EUROPE
INTO TRYING TO GET MORE MONEY
OUT OF THEM IN ORDER TO SUPPORT
THESE REFUGEES.
BUT NOW, AT LEAST EUROPE KNOWS
THAT WHO IT'S DEALING WITH.
AND THAT THERE IS SOME SORT OF
GOVERNMENT HERE.
AND SO PERHAPS, SOME SORT OF
ARRANGEMENT CAN NOW BE WORKED
OUT.
>> WERE THERE ANY SORT OF EXIT
QUESTIONNAIRES OR POLLS TAKEN ON
WHAT INFLUENCED PEOPLE WHEN THEY
WENT INTO THE POLLS TODAY?
>> THAT SORT OF EVIDENCE HAS NOT
REALLY COME OUT ON TURKISH
TELEVISION.
AND THERE ARE SOME PEOPLE HERE
RATHER UNHAPPY ABOUT THE
RESULTS.
THERE ARE PEOPLE ON THE LEFT OF
TURKISH SOCIETY AND ALSO PEOPLE
IN THE KURDISH AREAS IN THE
SOUTHEAST PERTURBED ABOUT THE
LEVEL OF VICTORY MR. ERDOGAN
SEEMS TO HAVE ACHIEVED.
THEY ARE SEEMING TO SUGGEST THAT
THERE WERE SOME KIND OF DIRTY
TRICKS BUT THE INTERNATIONAL
OBSERVERS ORGANIZATION, THE THE
ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY IN
EUROPE, SEEM PRETTY HAPPY OF THE
WAY THE ELECTION WAS CARRIED OUT
IN COMPLETE FAIRNESS.
THERE ARE THINGS A LITTLE BIT
STRANGE HERE FOR EXAMPLE THE
OFFICIAL STATE ORGANIZATION THAT
COUNTS THE POLLS CLOSED DOWN,
THAT PUZZLED THE MOST
EXPERIENCED POLITICAL ANALYSTS.
DON'T UNDERSTAND WHY THAT HAS
HAPPENED.
THERE ARE OTHERS WHO ARE ANGRY,
THERE ARE DISTURBANCES IN THE
CENTER OF THE KURDISH REGION IN
THE SOUTHEAST, THE PEOPLE WHO
SUPPORT THE KURDISH PARTY THE
HTP, WHO DID SO WELL IN THE JUNE
ELECTION, ARE DISAPPOINTED THEIR
NUMBERS HAVE DROPPED.
PEOPLE THINK THE REASON THEY
DIDN'T DO SO WELL THIS TIME IS
BECAUSE THEY ARE FORCED INTO A
POSITION OF SUPPORTING IN A WAY
THE KURDISH NATIONALISTS THE PKK
AFTER THE GOVERNMENT STARTED
ATTACKING THEM.
WHEREAS BEFORE THEY HAD A
PAN-TURKISH APPEAL OF PEOPLE
DISENCHANTED WITH THE GOVERNMENT
AND DISENFRANCHISED, BUT
CERTAINLY THE OPPOSITION PARTY
IS HAPPY TONIGHT.
>> MALCOLM
>> Sreenivasan: NEWLY ELECTED
SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES, PAUL RYAN, SAYS
HE IS RE-DESIGNING THE JOB.
HOUSE REPUBLICANS ELECTED RYAN
ON THURSDAY TO REPLACE JOHN
BOEHNER, WHO HAD RESIGNED.
IN INTERVIEWS SUNDAY, RYAN SAID
HE IS LOOKING TO LAY OUT A CLEAR
POLICY VISION AND BUILD MORE
CONSENSUS FROM THE BOTTOM UP.
RYAN ALSO TOLD NBC AND CBS NEWS
HE DID NOT FORESEE BIPARTISAN
IMMIGRATION REFORM PASSING
CONGRESS, BECAUSE, HE SAID,
PRESIDENT OBAMA IS QUOTE:
"UNTRUSTWORTHY ON THIS ISSUE."
>> LOOK, I THINK IT WOULD BE A
RIDICULOUS NOTION TO TRY AND
WORK ON AN ISSUE LIKE THIS WITH
A PRESIDENT WE SIMPLY CANNOT
TRUST ON THIS ISSUE.
HE TRIED TO GO IT ALONE,
CIRCUMVENTING THE LEGISLATIVE
PROCESS WITH HIS EXECUTIVE
ORDERS, SO THAT IS NOT IN THE
CARDS.
I THINK IF WE REACH CONSENSUS ON
HOW BEST TO ACHIEVE BORDER AND
INTERIOR ENFORCEMENT SECURITY, I
THINK THAT'S FINE.
>> Sreenivasan: NEARLY
1,000 AMERICAN POLICE OFFICERS
HAVE LOST THEIR JOBS DUE TO
SEXUAL MISCONDUCT, ACCORDING
TO AN INVESTIGATION BY THE
ASSOCIATED PRESS.
THE A.P. REPORT PUBLISHED TODAY
REVEALS THE OFFICERS LOST THEIR
LICENSE TO WORK IN LAW
ENFORCEMENT BETWEEN 2009 AND
2014 FOR OFFENSES INCLUDING
EXTORTING SEX ACTS TO AVOID
ARREST, SEXTING JUVENILES,
POSSESSING CHILD PORNOGRAPHY,
AND RAPE.
THE A.P. SAID THE PROBLEM IS
UNDERCOUNTED, BECAUSE VICTIMS OF
POLICE MISCONDUCT ARE OFTEN
RELUCTANT TO COME FORWARD, AND
THE INVESTIGATION'S FINDINGS
INCLUDE ONLY OFFICERS WHOSE
LICENSES HAVE BEEN REVOKED.
THE NUMBERS ALSO DON'T INCLUDE
CALIFORNIA OR NEW YORK, BECAUSE
THEY DON'T MAINTAIN STATEWIDE
STATISTICS ON DECERTIFIED
OFFICERS.
>> Sreenivasan: THE U.S. NAVY
HAS LOCATED WHAT IS BELIEVED TO
BE THE FLORIDA CARGO SHIP THAT
DISAPPEARED LAST MONTH NEAR THE
BAHAMAS DURING HURRICANE
JOAQUIN.
THE SHIP, NAMED "EL FARO," SANK
EN ROUTE FROM JACKSONVILLE TO
PUERTO RICO WITH 33 CREW MEMBERS
ON BOARD.
THE NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION
SAFETY BOARD SAYS SONAR IMAGES
INDICATE THE 790-FOOT SHIP IS
UPRIGHT IN ONE PIECE 15,000 FEET
-- ABOUT THREE MILES -- BELOW
THE WATER'S SURFACE.
TODAY, THE N.T.S.B. PLANNED TO
SUBMERGE VIDEO CAMERAS TO
CONFIRM THE DISCOVERY.
INVESTIGATORS HOPE TO RETRIEVE
BODIES AND THE SHIP'S VOYAGE
DATA RECORDER TO FIND OUT WHAT
WENT WRONG.
>> Sreenivasan: GREEK
AUTHORITIES SAY AT LEAST 15
PEOPLE DROWNED TODAY WHEN BOATS
FROM TURKEY SMUGGLING REFUGEES
CAPSIZED.
THE DEATHS ARE A REMINDER THAT
EVEN NOVEMBER'S CHILL HAS NOT
SLOWED THE STEADY FLOW TO EUROPE
OF MIGRANTS AND WAR REFUGEES --
PRIMARILY FROM SYRIA, LIBYA,
IRAQ, AND AFGHANISTAN.
NO COUNTRY HAS RECEIVED MORE OF
THESE ARRIVAL THAN GREECE.
AS I DISCOVERED ON A RECENT
REPORTING TRIP, THERE IS A FEAR
IN ATHENS THAT THE GROWING
RESISTANCE TO MIGRANTS TRAVELING
ON TO CENTRAL AND NORTHERN
EUROPE COULD LEAVE THEM STRANDED
IN GREECE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE GLORIOUS
SUNSET OVER THE ISLAND OF LESBOS
IS MISLEADING.
THE AEGEAN SEA IS ANYTHING BUT
TRANQUIL THESE DAYS.
THIS NIGHT, AN INFLATABLE RAFT
IS IN TROUBLE.
PEOPLE ON SHORE HAVE SHINED A
LIGHT ON THIS PILE OF
LIFEJACKETS TO GUIDE THE
DISTRESSED BOAT TO LAND.
ON THIS OCCASION, FATE IS KIND
THIS RESCUED GROUP OF MIGRANTS
AND REFUGEES IS TAKEN TO THE
HARBOR ON THE NORTHERN SIDE OF
THE ISLAND.
THESE FAMILIES, WRAPPED IN
THERMAL BLANKETS, ARE LUCKY TO
HAVE SURVIVED.
>> THE NUMBERS OF PEOPLE COMING
THROUGH HERE ARE SO HUGE, AND
THE RESOURCES TO COPE WITH IT SO
SMALL THAT GREECE CANNOT DO THIS
ALONE, WHICH WE'VE BEEN SAYING
SINCE THE BEGINNING.
>> Sreenivasan: RON REDMOND HAS
WORKED WITH THE UNITED NATIONS'
REFUGEE AGENCY SINCE THE EARLY
1990S.
>> I MEAN, UNTIL NOW, SINCE THE
BEGINNING OF THE YEAR, THEY'VE
HAD OVER HALF A MILLION PEOPLE
COME THROUGH THESE ISLANDS, UP
THROUGH ATHENS, THEY GET ON
BUSES, THEY GO UP TO THE BORDER,
AND THEY LEAVE GREECE AND GO
NORTH.
BUT THE WEEK THEY SPEND IN
GREECE, IS PUTTING A HUGE STRAIN
ON, PARTICULARLY, THE EASTERN
ISLANDS.
>> Sreenivasan: THE AUTHORITIES
ON LESBOS ARE ALREADY
OVERWHELMED AS THEIR POPULATION
SURGES BY THE BOAT LOAD.
AID AGENCIES CANNOT PROVIDE THE
NUMBER OF SHELTERS NEEDED.
THE REFUGEES COME HERE, BECAUSE
THE ISLAND IS GREECE'S NEAREST
POINT TO TURKEY, JUST FIVE MILES
AWAY AT ITS CLOSEST SHORE.
TRAFFICKERS CHARGE THESE
DESPERATE TRAVELERS ANYWHERE
BETWEEN $1,000-$2,500 PER PERSON
FOR THE SHORT, DANGEROUS TRIP.
THE WEEK I WAS THERE, 45,000
MIGRANTS CROSSED INTO GREECE.
IN FACT, 80% MIGRANTS AND
REFUGEES WHO'VE ARRIVED IN
EUROPE THIS YEAR HAVE COME
THROUGH GREECE.
NIKOS KOSTANDAROS IS THE
MANAGING EDITOR OF A LEADING
GREEK NEWSPAPER, KATHERMERINI.
>> GREECE IS NOT ABLE TO PROTECT
IS BORDERS, AND THAT'S NOT
BECAUSE IT WOULDN'T TRY.
IT'S IMPOSSIBLE.
THE ISLANDS ARE A LACEWORK
ACROSS THE SEA.
YOU CANNOT STOP IT.
AND HOW DO YOU STOP IT?
DO YOU SINK THE BOATS WITH
PEOPLE ON BOARD?
DO YOU SHOOT AT THEM?
DO YOU BOMB TURKEY BEFORE THEY
LEAVE, WHICH WAS ONE OF THE
ISSUES THAT WAS RAISED IN LIBYA,
FOR EXAMPLE -- THAT THEY WOULD
BOMB THE SMUGGLERS BOATS BEFORE
THEY LEFT.
THESE ARE CRAZY IDEAS.
THERE IS NO STOPPING IT.
>> Sreenivasan: ONE OF THE
CHALLENGES FROM KEEPING MIGRANTS
FROM ENTERING IS BEHIND ME.
THE COUNTRY HAS MORE THAN 6,000
ISLANDS.
THAT'S MORE COASTLINE THAN
MEXICO.
THIS SHIP, DOCKED IN THE MAIN
TOWN ON LESBOS, BELONGS TO
FRONTEX, THE EUROPEAN AGENCY
THAT'S SUPPOSED TO HELP NATION
PROTECT THEIR EXTERNAL LAND AND
SEA BORDERS.
BUT IN PRACTICE, FRONTEX IS
ACTING AS A RESCUE SERVICE FOR
REFUGEES IN PERIL ON THE SEA.
IN SOME WAYS, SO IS THIS GREEK
WARSHIP ANCHORED IN A COVE OFF
LESBOS.
THESE DAYS, IT WORKS AS MUCH IN
A HUMANITARIAN CAPACITY AS IT
DOES DEALING WITH SECURITY.
ABOVE THE BAY, EVERY DAY,
THOUSANDS OF MIGRANTS LINE UP
FOR FOOD PROVIDED BY AID
AGENCIES, WHILE WAITING TO CATCH
A BUS TO A FERRY PROVIDED BY THE
GREEK GOVERNMENT THAT WILL TAKE
THEM TO THE MAINLAND.
SECURITY EXPERTS WORRY THAT
BLENDING IN AMONG THE MASSES OF
THESE UNSCREENED REFUGEES COULD
BE TRAINED MILITANTS FROM GROUPS
LIKE THE ISLAMIC STATE, OR ISIS.
THAT'S A CONCERN OF THEODOROS
PANAS, A RETIRED GREEK
INTELLIGENCE OFFICER WHO OVERSAW
COUNTER-TERRORISM EFFORTS DURING
THE LAST ATHENS OLYMPICS, IN
2004.
>> ONE OF THE EASIEST WAYS TO
INFILTRATE EUROPE OR OTHER
COUNTRIES IS THROUGH THIS
PROBLEM.
>> Sreenivasan: WHILE SOME
COUNTRIES IN THE E.U. SEE THE
WEAK BORDERS IN GREECE AS PART
OF THE PROBLEM.
PANAS SAYS THE PROBLEM BEGINS IN
TURKEY.
>> WE CAN SEE, FOR EXAMPLE, IN
TURKEY, THAT DAILY THEY ARE
CROSSING THE BORDER-- MORE THAN
10,000 PEOPLE.
I CANNOT BELIEVE THAT THIS IS
DONE WITHOUT THE LOCAL
AUTHORITIES OF TURKEY TO KNOW
IT.
>> Sreenivasan: EVERY DAY, A
FERRY FROM LESBOS DOCKS AT THE
MAIN PORT IN ATHENS, AND IT IS
FILLED WITH REFUGEES WHO ARE
ANXIOUS TO EMBARK ON THE NEXT
STAGE OF THEIR JOURNEY NORTH.
EVEN SYRIAN MEDICAL STUDENT
MOHAMMED GHUNAIM, WHO IS
RECORDING EVERY STEP OF HIS
JOURNEY, UNDERSTANDS THE
RESISTANCE.
>> THEY HAVE THE RIGHT TO CLOSE
THEIR BORDERS OR OPEN IT,
BECAUSE IT'S THEIR, THEIR
COUNTRIES.
>> Sreenivasan: SOME REFUGEES
LAND AT WEIGH STATIONS LIKE THIS
PARK IN VICTORIA SQUARE IN
ATHENS, WAITING FOR DAYS TILL
THEY CAN GET MONEY WIRED TO THEM
FROM THEIR RELATIVES IN ORDER TO
CONTINUE THEIR JOURNEY ONWARD.
GIVEN THIS BORDER CRISIS IN
GREECE, HOW DO YOU REVERSE THIS?
>> I DON'T THINK YOU CAN REVERSE
THIS, NOT IN THE SENSE OF
STOPPING THE FLOW OF PEOPLE.
ONCE THEY ARE ON THE ROAD.
ALL THE EFFORTS IN SYRIA ARE
PIECEMEAL AND OFTEN AT ODDS WITH
EACH OTHER.
THIS IS NOW AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
EVERYBODY TO PRESS FOR A VITAL
SOLUTION.
PUSHING ALL OF THE PARTIES
INVOLVED IN THE SYRIAN CONFLICT
TOWARDS A, TOWARDS A COMPROMISE
SOMEWHERE THAT CAN GIVE PEOPLE
THE HOPE OF RETURNING.
THAT WILL ALSO HELP DEAL WITH
THE PROBLEM IN EUROPE.
ONCE WE KNOW THAT IT'S NOT
PERMANENT; ONCE WE KNOW THAT UH,
THAT WE ARE HELPING PEOPLE IN
THEIR HOUR OF NEED RATHER THAN
CHANGING OUR OWN SOCIETY IN A
WAY THAT THAT NO ONE HAS BEEN
PREPARED FOR.
>> PRIMARILY YOU'VE GOT TO END
THE CONFLICTS, AND WE DON'T SEE
THAT HAPPENING IN SYRIA.
>> Sreenivasan: WHEN YOU HAVE
ONE COUNTRY THAT WANTS TO BUILD
A RAZOR WIRE FENCE AND ANOTHER
COUNTRY THAT WANTS TO TREAT
MIGRANTS DIFFERENTLY, WHAT ARE
YOU GOING TO HAVE IN SIX MONTHS
TO A YEAR?
6A PATCHWORK OF QUASI-BORDERS?
>> I THINK, INITIALLY, WHAT YOU
ARE GOING TO SEE AND WHAT I
THINK PEOPLE UPSTREAM FEAR, FOR
EXAMPLE, HERE IN GREECE, THAT
THEY'RE GOING TO BE LEFT HOLDING
THE BAG, THAT YOU'RE GOING TO
HAVE A BACKUP GOING ALL THE WAY
TO GREECE AND BEYOND EVEN.
I MEAN, YOU BUILD A DAM, YOU END
UP WITH A RESERVOIR BEHIND IT,
AND I THINK SOMEBODY MAY GET
STUCK WITH A RESERVOIR OF
REFUGEES.
>> Sreenivasan: GREECE HAS
AVOIDED BECOMING THAT RESERVOIR
BY MANAGING TO FUNNEL THE NEW
ARRIVALS UP TO ITS BORDER WITH
MACEDONIA.
AND THEN THEY MARCH ON.
THROUGH THE BALKANS, AND
BEYOND.
AMIDST A PROFOUND ECONOMIC
CRISIS OF ITS OWN, GREECE IS
STRUGGLING WITH THE BURDEN OF
BEING THE REFUGEES' MAIN PORT OF
CALL.
AND IF ITS NEIGHBORS DECIDE SHUT
DOWN THEIR FRONTIERS AND REFUSE
TO ADMIT MORE ASYLUM SEEKERS,
THESE REFUGEES COULD BE TRAPPED
IN A COUNTRY THEY DO NOT WANT TO
BE IN AND ONE THAT CANNOT AFFORD
THEM.
>> Sreenivasan: NEXT, A PREVIEW
OF A NEW PBS "FRONTLINE" FILM ON
THE ISLAMIC STATE CALLED "ISIS
IN AFGHANISTAN."
IT'S A SPECIAL REPORT REVEALING,
FOR THE FIRST TIME ON
TELEVISION, HOW ISIS IS GAINING
A FOOTHOLD IN AFGHANISTAN AND
RECRUITING YOUNG CHILDREN TO
JOIN THEIR HOLY WAR, OR JIHAD.
"FRONTLINE"'S CORRESPONDENT WAS
GRANTED ACCESS INSIDE A SCHOOL
WHERE ISIS SAYS IT IS GIVING
JIHAD LESSONS, WHICH YOU WILL
SEE, ARE COMPLETE WITH GUNS AND
GRENADES.
"ISIS IN AFGHANISTAN" PREMIERES
ON PBS ON NOVEMBER 17TH.
HERE'S A FIRST LOOK.
>> IN THIS VILLAGE IN EASTERN
AFGHANISTAN, I.S.I.S. TIGHTERS
LIVE AMONG THE LOCALS AND SEEM
TO CONTROL EVERY ASPECT OF LIFE.
THEY TAKE LOCAL WIVES, COLLECT
TAXES AND EVEN RUN THE VILLAGE
SCHOOL.
THE FIGHTERS SAY THAT ALL
CHILDREN ARE EDUCATED BY THE
ISLAMIC STATE FROM THE AGE OF 3.
-- EDUCATED BY THE ISLAMIC STATE
BY THE AGE OF 3.
>> THE TEACHER, ABDALLA, SPENDS
A FEW MINUTES EXPLAINING THE
THEORY OF JIHAD OR HOLY WAR.
MOVES ON TO ITS PRACTICE.
WHEN THE CHILDREN STRUGGLE WITH
HIS QUESTIONS THE TEACHER
WHISPERS THE ANSWERS.
>> Sreenivasan: THE FORMER
COMMUNIST OFFICIAL WHO LET SLIP
THAT BERLIN'S COLD WAR BARRIER
BETWEEN EAST AND WEST WOULD BE
LOOSENED, HAS DIED.
GUNTER SCHABOWSKI MADE HIS MARK
ON HISTORY 26 YEARS AGO.
ON NOVEMBER 9TH, 1989,
SCHABOWSKI ANNOUNCED AT A PRESS
CONFERENCE THAT EAST GERMANS
WERE PERMITTED TO TRAVEL TO WEST
GERMANY.
BUT THE COMMUNIST PARTY HAD NOT
INTENDED TO ANNOUNCE THE POLICY
CHANGE UNTIL THE NEXT DAY AND
THEY WOULD MERELY HAVE ALLOWED
EAST GERMANS TO APPLY FOR BORDER
CROSSING VISAS.
PRESSED BY A REPORTER ABOUT THE
RULES, SCHABOWSKI FUMBLED AND
SAID EAST GERMANS COULD LEAVE
ACROSS ANY BORDER WITH THE
WEST...IMMEDIATELY.
WITHIN HOURS, THOUSANDS OF EAST
GERMANS DID, RUSHING THE BERLIN
WALL AND STREAMING INTO THE
WEST.
EAST AND WEST GERMANY REUNITED
THE FOLLOWING YEAR.
SCHABOWSKI LATER SPENT ONE YEAR
IN PRISON FOR HIS ROLE ENFORCING
THE OLD COMMUNIST SHOOT-TO-KILL
POLICIES AGAINST EAST GERMANS
TRYING TO ESCAPE OVER THE WALL,
A PARDON HAD SHORTENED HIS
SENTENCE.
HE DIED IN BERLIN TODAY AT AGE
86.
AND ONE OF THE DRIEST PLACES ON
EARTH IS IN BLOOM.
CHILE'S ATACAMA DESERT IS AWASH
IN VIBRANT HUES, AS 200
DIFFERENT KINDS OF PLANTS HAVE
SPRUNG UP.
THE DESERT TYPICALLY GETS LESS
THAN TWO-TENTHS OF AN INCH OF
RAIN A YEAR, BUT THIS SPRING AN
EL NINO DUMPED HEAVIEST RAINS
THIS REGION HAS FELT IN 20
YEARS.
SCIENTISTS SAY THOSE RAINS
AWAKENED SEEDS THAT HAD BEEN
DORMANT FOR YEARS, BRINGING
FORTH FLOWERS, BIRDS, AND OF
COURSE TOURISTS.
NOW ONLINE AT
pbs.org/newshour:
LEARN EIGHT THINGS YOU DIDN'T
KNOW ABOUT THE NEW YORK CITY
MARATHON, RUN TODAY FOR THE 45TH
TIME, AND LISTEN TO OUR SPOTIFY
PLAYLIST FROM BANDS PLAYING
ALONG THE COURSE.
VISIT pbs.org/newshour.
AND FINALLY, THE ACTOR
AND POLITICIAN FRED THOMPSON
HAS DIED.
THOMPSON SERVED AS A U.S.
SENATOR FROM TENNESSEE FOR TWO
TERMS BEFORE RUNNING FOR THE
REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL
NOMINATION UNSUCCESSFULLY IN
2008.
EARLIER IN HIS POLITICAL CAREER,
HE SERVED AS AN ATTORNEY ON THE
CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE THAT
INVESTIGATED THE WATERGATE
SCANDAL.
THOMPSON WAS ALSO WELL KNOWN FOR
HIS APPEARANCES ON T.V. AND IN
MOVIES.
HE PLAYED THE DISTRICT ATTORNEY
ON NBC'S "LAW AND ORDER" FOR
FIVE SEASONS AND APPEARED IN 20
FEATURE FILMS, INCLUDING "THE
HUNT FOR RED OCTOBER."
THOMPSON'S FAMILY SAID HE DIED
TODAY AFTER A RECURRENCE OF
LYMPHOMA.
HE WAS 73 YEARS OLD.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
GOOD NIGHT.